Assistant docs overhaul (#1761)
semgrep/semgrep-docs: docs/semgrep-assistant/analyze.md

---
slug: analyze
title: Analyze findings
hide_title: true
description: Learn how to analyze findings with Assistant and view its results.
tags:
  - Deployment
  - Semgrep Assistant
---

# Analyze findings with Semgrep Assistant

Once you've [enabled Assistant](/docs/semgrep-assistant/getting-started), you can use the **Analyze** button on the [Findings page](/semgrep-code/findings) to trigger all Assistant functions, including autofix, auto-triage, and component tagging, on existing findings.

![Assistant Analyze button on Findings page](/img/scp-assistant.png#md-width)

To analyze your findings with Assistant:

1. On the [Findings](https://semgrep.dev/orgs/-/findings?tab=open) page, select the findings that you want Assistant to analyze.
2. Click **Analyze**.

> 3. In the confirmation window that appears, confirm that you want to analyze your findings with Assistant.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. In the confirmation dialog that appears, confirm that you want to analyze your findings with Assistant.
```

I think this is a dialog because it's not modular (https://developers.google.com/style/ui-elements#term-windows)

> After Assistant performs these functions, you can see your results on the **Findings** page using the **Recommendation** or **Component** filters. When viewing your findings, you can see false positive and true positive recommendations when viewing the finding details pages if you choose **No Grouping** instead of **Group by Rule**.

Reviewer: Hmm, on the findings page, if the user didn't analyze all the findings, then only some findings can be filtered with the Recommendation and Component filters? Is that right?

Reviewer 2: Yes only findings that have been analyzed by Assistant would show up when using those filters.

> After Assistant performs these functions, you can see your results on the **Findings** page using the **Recommendation** or **Component** filters. When viewing your findings, you can see false positive and true positive recommendations when viewing the finding details pages if you choose **No Grouping** instead of **Group by Rule**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After Assistant performs these functions, you can see its results on the **Code** page using the **Recommendation** or **Component** filters. When viewing your findings, you can see false positive and true positive recommendations when viewing the finding details pages if you choose **No Grouping** instead of **Group by Rule**
```

> After Assistant performs these functions, you can see your results on the **Findings** page using the **Recommendation** or **Component** filters. When viewing your findings, you can see false positive and true positive recommendations when viewing the finding details pages if you choose **No Grouping** instead of **Group by Rule**.

Reviewer: The last sentence is a little confusing to me:

> When viewing your findings, you can see false positive and true positive recommendations when viewing the finding details pages if you choose **No Grouping** instead of **Group by Rule**.

Shouldn't the **Findings details** page be the same regardless of the view of the page you were on before (the Code page)?

Author: I think I conflated a few things, so I am simplifying to 

> When viewing your findings, you can see false positive and true positive recommendations in the finding details pages.

Otherwise, the results just flags false positives and give you an option to agree/disagree with a true postive.

> The amount of time required to analyze your findings varies, but the UI displays a notification that provides an estimated wait time.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The amount of time required to analyze your findings varies. Before running the analysis, the confirmation dialog provides an estimated wait time.
```
I checked the flow and I think this "UI" specifically refers to the confirmation dialog in step 3?

:::info
- For Team tier users with less than 10 contributors: There is a cap of 50 Assistant runs per month using the **Analyze** button.
- For Team or Enterprise users with an active subscription: There is a cap of 10,000 Assistant runs per month using the **Analyze** button. It is rate-limited to 1,000 Assistant runs per hour.
- For users of any tier: Assistant runs against pull requests and merge requests do not count against this limit.
:::

## View recommendations

You can [view all of Semgrep Assistant's recommendations](/semgrep-code/findings/#filter-findings) by going to the Semgrep **Findings** page and filtering by **Recommendation** or **Component**.

## Feedback

Semgrep Assistant prompts you for feedback whenever it suggests that a finding is a false positive. Because Assistant content is generated by language models (LLMs), your feedback helps the Semgrep team improve Assistant.

> 

Reviewer: The following set of bullets starting from line 41 to 43 need a sentence to introduce them or explain their unifying theme.

> * In Semgrep AppSec Platform, the Assistant recommendation appears under **Activity** for a finding, along with **Agree and ignore** or **Disagree** buttons.

Reviewer: Where is the **Activity** UI element located?

* In Slack notifications, **Agree** and **Disagree** buttons appear under the Assistant recommendation message.
* In GitHub pull requests, you can leave feedback using `/semgrep assistant agree|disagree`.

> If Semgrep Assistant suggests that a finding is a true positive and supplies an autofix suggestion, there is no automated mechanism to leave feedback on this outcome. Feel free to contact the Semgrep team using one of the methods below to let us know your thoughts.

Reviewer: I think this is the end of the doc? It's missing some "methods below" I think?

---
slug: analyze
title: Analyze findings
hide_title: true
description: Learn how to analyze findings with Assistant and view its results.
tags:
  - Deployment
  - Semgrep Assistant
---

# Analyze findings with Semgrep Assistant

Once you've [enabled Assistant](/docs/semgrep-assistant/getting-started), you can use the **Analyze** button on the [Findings page](/semgrep-code/findings) to trigger all Assistant functions, including autofix, auto-triage, and component tagging, on existing findings.

![Assistant Analyze button on Findings page](/img/scp-assistant.png#md-width)

To analyze your findings with Assistant:

1. On the [Findings](https://semgrep.dev/orgs/-/findings?tab=open) page, select the findings that you want Assistant to analyze.
2. Click **Analyze**.
3. In the confirmation dialog that appears, confirm that you want to analyze your findings with Assistant.

> After Assistant performs these functions, you can see its results on the **Code** page using the **Recommendation** or **Component** filters. When viewing your findings, you can see false positive and true positive recommendations in the finding details pages.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After Assistant performs these functions, you can see its results on the **Code** page using the **Recommendation** or **Component** filters. When viewing your findings, you can see false positive and true positive recommendations in a finding's **Details** page.
```

The amount of time required to analyze your findings varies. Before running the analysis, the confirmation dialog provides an estimated wait time.

:::info
- For Team tier users with less than 10 contributors: There is a cap of 50 Assistant runs per month using the **Analyze** button.
- For Team or Enterprise users with an active subscription: There is a cap of 10,000 Assistant runs per month using the **Analyze** button. It is rate-limited to 1,000 Assistant runs per hour.
- For users of any tier: Assistant runs against pull requests and merge requests do not count against this limit.
:::

## View recommendations

You can [view all of Semgrep Assistant's recommendations](/semgrep-code/findings/#filter-findings) by going to the Semgrep **Findings** page and filtering by **Recommendation** or **Component**.

## Feedback

Semgrep Assistant prompts you for feedback whenever it suggests that a finding is a false positive. Because Assistant content is generated by language models (LLMs), your feedback helps the Semgrep team improve Assistant.

> Semgrep Assistant offers you the chance to leave feedback in the following places:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Semgrep Assistant lets you leave feedback in the following places:
```

Just shortening it.
